# Project

`PROJECT DESCRIPTION HERE`

Final report: Predicting grammatical gender in French with word-final phonemes
For my project, I wanted to make and calculate the accuracy of a program looping through a list of French nouns, determining the final phoneme, and relying on a dictionary to evaluate the gender of the word based on the final phoneme. I started by formatting a tagged csv file of over 10,000 french morphemes to yield a list of approximately 2,000 French nouns, including 1,000 tagged for accuracy calculation purposes (real_nouns.txt). The majority of my code, fr_transcribe.py, began with the use of Epitran to transcribe these nouns. Then began my creation of the dictionary, using Surridge as the source determining masculine, feminine, or ambiguous word endings. My program iterates over the epitransliterated result of real_nouns.txt (or whatever text file used) and finds the last character to create a list of word-final phonemes which will be the information used in matching keys and values. Column five includes 1,000 tokens tagged by me to provide a comparison, and the guess in column four is a result of a for loop iterating over the lists and consulting the dictionary. Noticing that the list of French nouns included a number of acronyms, I decided to add an if statement that would mark nouns written in uppercase as masculine, a generalized rule that I figured to be equally as faulty as the phonological assumptions of the literature I referenced. Lastly, accuracy is calculated and yields a percentage of 63.4% accuracy from the 1,000 tokens, and the accuracy fluctuates between 50-60% when iterating over partitions of 10 tokens. 
My project was inspired by a lesson I taught over prépositions de lieux where I was disappointed by my uncertainty over the gender of countries in French. For this reason, I formatted another csv file of countries in French (fr_lieux2.txt) and tagged the proper gender in order to see how well my project truly “scratched my itch.” The accuracy of gender prediction over these 199 tokens was 61.8% and the product is included in github as lieux_results.txt. 
